Pay or I’ll Commit Suicide

At the Infosys Foundation we get approximately 10,000 letters annually. It is a Herculean task for my secretaries to sort them, read them and send replies. Some letters are eye-openers and some are funny and crazy. One day I received a letter that seemed like an SOS. It was a five-page letter from a woman. The first two pages described the vagaries of the stock market. She explained how she had lost her money by choosing the wrong stocks. The actual message was in the last few sentences. She asked me to pay all the loans she had incurred due to her foolishness. ‘It is not a big amount. It is a mere five crores,’ she concluded. I didn’t know who this woman was and marvelled at her audacity in writing a letter like this. I didn’t reply.
The very next week there was another letter from her, again five pages long, but this time describing her domestic difficulties and how important it was for me to help her. She also wrote that she would commit suicide if I did not send her the money, and that she would hold me responsible. What could I reply to such a letter? I didn’t write back. After two weeks, a third letter came, saying that I had a heart of stone, that I didn’t have any love and sympathy for fellow human beings. She wondered how a person like me could be involved in philanthropic work.
Such letters hurt me at times. I really cannot understand this kind of philosophy. If you fail to give money when asked, you are immediately treated with hostility. Relatives often behave in the same way. They comment, ‘What is the use of relatives when you do not give money to your own people? How can you help others?’
 
Help is a word whose real meaning very few people understand. It is essential that we help our people and our country, but giving money to a well-to-do person should not be considered help. Giving money to buy a second house, expensive jewellery or for a holiday abroad is not help. If somebody loses money on the stock market in his greed to become rich quickly, then why should anyone feel obliged to help him?
If somebody honours me with a shawl, there is usually an application that comes with it. If a person praises me, most of the time there is a request at the end. I have decided to help only people who do not have anything, people who may perish without support. These are my people. They are my relatives. I work for them, regardless of their caste, community, gender, language or political affiliation, provided that we have funds. I don’t expect anything from them, not even a bouquet of flowers. The happiness in their eyes is the real reward.
After the woman’s suicide threat, I asked my secretary to discard such letters without showing them to me. As a result, I have fewer letters to read these days.
